# Ride-Share-in-Massachussets
 Background: We find rideshare data to be a relevant topic today, especially given the increasing climate issues that can be linked to use of cars and their emissions. We decided to therefore research what municipalities tend to have a higher usage of rideshare as opposed to public transportation or other means of transport, as we believe that those municipalities with lesser use of rideshare could be examples for how regulation or other means could impact or cause an unnecessary overuse of individual vehicles.
Why We Picked Variables: We chose to use the variables we did due to their relevance to our predicted hypothesis. We wanted to see, for example, the correlation between a municipalities' population and its use of ride-share, or its form of government or type of municipality and how that correlates to the average number of rides per person. Our variables were also chosen due to their accessibility – we used the variables provided by publicly available data due to the fact that we could rely on its accuracy.
Hypotheses: Our hypothesis was that cities and municipalities with higher populations would be correlated with a higher average number of rides per person than rural or smaller municipalities, specifically because higher populated municipalities typically have better public transportation. We further hypothesized that parking regulations or availability of public transportation would impact the number of rides per person, which we chose to evaluate in a more general sense using the variable of municipality type.
Data Collection: The first dataset we used is actually a government dataset that gives an overview of various aspects of the utilization of ride-share apps in Massachusetts in 2019. We justified using data from this year because we think this source, being from the government, is likely to be more accurate than most others, and this was the most recent that they had available. We extracted from this dataset information about the number of rides originating from each municipality in MA, the population of those municipalities, avg number of miles traveled in that trip, and average miles from the origin. We then used a second publicly available dataset for qualitative variables. This dataset defined the type of each municipality (often city vs town etc) as well as the county each municipality was within, and the form of government of that municipality.
Issues: It was difficult to find qualitative data for all the listed municipalities, which limited the possible variables we could include in our model. The main issues with our data were outliers (mainly values of 0 in our data for avg miles or mins, or destination trips per person) , which we removed from our data, and multicollinearity of avg miles and minutes. To resolve this issue, we removed avg mins from our final model.
